= nagiosharder

Query and command a Nagios install using the power of ruby (and lots of screen-scaping)! Do the usual gem install jig:

  gem install nagiosharder


Now you have access to both a Ruby interface and a command line interface.

Here's some examples to get you started with the Ruby API:

  require 'nagiosharder'
  site = NagiosHarder::Site.new('http://path/to/nagios/cgi/directory', 'user', 'password', 'version')
  # version defaults to 3
  
  # get details back about a host's services
  puts site.host_status('myhost')

  # schedule a host to have services checks run again right now
  site.schedule_host_check('myhost')

  # get details on all services
  site.service_status(:all)
  # or just services that have problems 
  site.service_status(:all_problems)
  # (other valid symbols: :ok, :warning, :unknown, :critical, :pending, :all_problems)
  # or make it sorted by  duration, descending
  site.service_status(:all_problem, :sort_option => :duration, :sort_type => :desc
  # (other sort_options: :host, :service, :status, :last_check, :duration, :attempts)
  # (other sort_types: :asc, :desc)
  # or get the details for a single service group
  site.service_status(:all_problem, :group => "AWESOME")

  # schedule a host to have services checks run again right now
  site.schedule_service_check('myhost', 'myservice')

  # schedule 20 minutes of downtime, starting now
  site.schedule_host_downtime('myhost', :start_time => Time.now, :end_time => Time.now + 20.minutes)

  # schedule a flexible 20 minutes of downtime between now and 2 hours from now
  site.schedule_host_downtime('myhost', :type => :flexible, :start_time => Time.now, :end_time => Time.now + 2.hours, :hours => 0, :minutes => 20)

  # acknowledge a down service
  site.acknowledge_service('myhost', 'myservice', 'something bad happened')

  # or unacknowledge
  site.unacknowledge_service('myhost', 'myservice')

  # disable notifications for a service:
  site.disable_service_notifications('myhost', 'myservice')

  # check if notifications are disabled:
  site.service_notifications_disabled?('myhost', 'myservice')

  # enable notifications for a service:
  site.enable_service_notifications('myhost', 'myservice')

  # disable notifications, and wait for nagios to process it:
  site.disable_service_notifications('myhost', 'myservice')
  until site.service_notifications_disabled?('myhost', 'myservice')
    sleep 3
  end

Then there's the command line. Start with --help

  nagiosharder --help

This will show you how you configure nagiosharder enough to talk to your nagios. You need at least a username, password, and nagios url. These can alternatively be in a config file. For example:

  nagiosharder --config /path/to/yaml

This will display all available commands.


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Josh Nichols. See LICENSE for details.
